feat: add support for kfd 125 to gke demo (#36)
sighupio/fury-getting-started: fury-on-gke/README.md

- **Docker** - a [Docker image][fury-getting-started-dockerfile] containing `furyctl` and all the necessary tools is provided.
- **OpenVPN Client** - [Tunnelblick][tunnelblick] (on macOS) or [OpenVPN Connect][openvpn-connect] (for other OS) are recommended.
- **Google Cloud Storage** (optional) to hold the Terraform state.

> - **Github** account with [SSH key configured][github-ssh-key-setup].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **GitHub** account with [SSH key configured][github-ssh-key-setup].
```

kubectl get nodes
```

> ℹ️ KFD Ingress Module v1.14.1 includes a validating admission webhook that checks ingress definitions before accepting them. Validating webhooks are queried by the API server each time a request arrives. In GKE you need to create a firewall rule to enable the communication between the API server and the webhook.
> The installer already does this for the cert-manager and gatekeeper webhooks, but at the time of writing this guide, the rule creation for the ingress webhook has not been automated yet (see [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-gke-installer/issues/30)).
> You will need to create the firewall rule manually in the mean time:
>
> Make sure to replace `<YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME>` with the name of your cluster before running the command:

```sh
make create-firewall-rule SOURCE_RANGE=10.0.0.0/28 PROJECT=your-project-id NETWORK=your-network-name TAG=your-cluster-tag PORT=9443

> ```

Reviewer: we can remove this, the fix has been released with furyctl v0.10.0 (the version included in the container)

│   │   ├── forecastle
│   │   ├── nginx
│   │   └── tests
│   ├── logging
│   │   ├── cerebro
│   │   ├── configs
│   │   ├── logging-operated
│   │   ├── logging-operator
│   │   ├── loki-configs
│   │   ├── loki-distributed
│   │   ├── minio-ha
│   │   ├── opensearch-dashboards
│   │   ├── opensearch-single
│   │   ├── opensearch-triple
│   │   └── tests
│   ├── monitoring
│   │   ├── aks-sm
│   │   ├── alertmanager-operated
│   │   ├── blackbox-exporter
│   │   ├── configs
│   │   ├── eks-sm
│   │   ├── gke-sm
│   │   ├── grafana
│   │   ├── karma
│   │   ├── kube-proxy-metrics
│   │   ├── kube-state-metrics
│   │   ├── kubeadm-sm
│   │   ├── node-exporter
│   │   ├── prometheus-adapter
│   │   ├── prometheus-operated
│   │   ├── prometheus-operator
│   │   ├── tests
│   │   ├── thanos
│   │   └── x509-exporter
│   ├── networking
│   │   ├── calico
│   │   ├── ip-masq
│   │   ├── tests
│   │   └── tigera
│   └── opa
│       ├── gatekeeper
│       └── tests
└── modules
    └── dr
        ├── aws-velero
        ├── azure-velero
        └── gcp-velero

```

## Step 3 - Installation

### Terraform project

Each module can contain Kustomize bases or Terraform modules.

> First of all, we need to initialize the additional Terraform project to create resources for the DR (Velero).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, we need to initialize the additional Terraform project to create resources needed by Velero in the Disaster Recovery module.
```

> In the repository, you can find the main.tf file `/demo/terraform/main.yml`. In this file you need to change the values for the GCS bucket that will contain the state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the repository, you can find a Terraform file at `/demo/terraform/main.tf`. Edit this file and change the values for the GCS bucket that will store the Terraform state for the new resources:
```

```terraform
terraform {

> #   backend "s3" {
> #     bucket: <GCS_BUCKET>
> #     key: <MY_KEY> 
> #     region: <GCS_BUCKET_REGION>
> #   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#   backend "s3" {
#     bucket = <GCS_BUCKET>
#     key    = <MY_KEY> 
#     region = <GCS_BUCKET_REGION>
#   }
```

  required_version = ">= 0.15.4"

  required_providers {
    google     = ">= 3.55.0"
  }
}

```

Then, create a file `terraform.tfvars` with the following content (Change the values accordingly to your environment):

```terraform
velero_bucket_name = "velero-gke-demo-sa"
```

Then apply the terraform project:

```bash
cd /demo/terraform/

make init
make plan
make apply
```

After everything is applied, extract the kustomize patches we need in the next step with the following command:

```bash
make generate-output
```

### Kustomize project

> Kustomize allows to group together related Kubernetes resources and combines them to create more complex deployments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kustomize allows grouping related Kubernetes resources and combining them to create more complex deployments. 
```

Moreover, it is flexible, and it enables a simple patching mechanism for additional customization.

> To deploy the Fury distribution, use the following root `kustomization.yaml` located `/demo/manifests/kustomization.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy the Fury distribution, use the following root `kustomization.yaml` located at `/demo/manifests/kustomization.yaml`:
```

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

resources:
  - ingress
  - logging
  - monitoring
  - networking
  - dr
  - opa
  - aws
```

> This `kustomization.yaml` wraps the other `kustomization.yaml`s in subfolders. For example in `/demo/manifests/logging/kustomization.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `kustomization.yaml` wraps other `kustomization.yaml` files present in each module subfolder. For example in `/demo/manifests/logging/kustomization.yaml` you'll find:
```

│   │   ├── kube-state-metrics
│   │   ├── kubeadm-sm
│   │   ├── node-exporter
│   │   ├── prometheus-adapter
│   │   ├── prometheus-operated
│   │   ├── prometheus-operator
│   │   ├── tests
│   │   ├── thanos
│   │   └── x509-exporter
│   ├── networking
│   │   ├── calico
│   │   ├── ip-masq
│   │   ├── tests
│   │   └── tigera
│   └── opa
│       ├── gatekeeper
│       └── tests
└── modules
    └── dr
        ├── aws-velero
        ├── azure-velero
        └── gcp-velero

```

## Step 3 - Installation

### Terraform project

Each module can contain Kustomize bases or Terraform modules.

First of all, we need to initialize the additional Terraform project to create resources needed by Velero in the Disaster Recovery module.

Inside the repository, you can find a Terraform file at `/demo/terraform/main.tf`. Edit this file and change the values for the GCS bucket that will store the Terraform state for the new resources:

```terraform
terraform {
#   backend "s3" {
#     bucket = <GCS_BUCKET>
#     key    = <MY_KEY> 
#     region = <GCS_BUCKET_REGION>
#   }
  required_version = ">= 0.15.4"

  required_providers {
    google     = ">= 3.55.0"
  }
}

```

> Then, create a file `terraform.tfvars` with the following content (Change the values accordingly to your environment):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create a file `terraform.tfvars` with the following content (change the values accordingly to your environment):
```

```terraform
velero_bucket_name = "velero-gke-demo-sa"
```

> Then apply the terraform project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then apply the Terraform project:
```

cd /demo/manifests/

make apply

> # Due to some chicken-egg 🐓🥚 problem with custom resources you have to apply multiple times

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Wait a momento for the Kubernetes API server to process the new CRDs and for the nginx-ingress-contorllers to become READY, and then run again the apply command.
```

### Setup local DNS

In Step 3, alongside the distribution, you have deployed Kubernetes ingresses to expose underlying services at the following HTTP routes:

- `forecastle.fury.info`
- `grafana.fury.info`
- `opensearch-dashboards.fury.info`

To access the ingresses more easily via the browser, configure your local DNS to resolve the ingresses to the internal load balancer IP:

1. Get the address of the internal load balancer:

```bash

> dig $(kubectl get svc ingress-nginx -n ingress-nginx --no-headers | awk '{print $4}')

Reviewer: you can just use `dig +short` instead of piping to `awk`

10.1.0.5
```

3. Add the following line to your local `/etc/hosts` (not the container's):

```bash

> 10.1.0.5 directory.fury.info prometheus.fury.info alertmanager.fury.info opensearch-dashboards.fury.info grafana.fury.info

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<LB-IP-ADDRESS> directory.fury.info prometheus.fury.info alertmanager.fury.info opensearch-dashboards.fury.info grafana.fury.info
```

[OpenSearch Dashboards](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards) is an open-source analytics and visualization platform for OpenSearch. OpenSearch Dashboards lets you perform advanced data analysis and visualize data in various charts, tables, and maps. You can use it to search, view, and interact with data stored in OpenSearch indices.

Navigate to <http://opensearch-dashboards.fury.info> or click the OpenSearch Dashboards icon from Forecastle.

> #### Read the logs

Reviewer: I've improved this section in the other guides, I'd recommend porting the changes over to this guide also. See [#27](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-getting-started/issues/27)

Fury provides pre-configured dashboards to visualize the state of the cluster. Examine an example dashboard:

1. Click on the search icon on the left sidebar.
2. Write `pods` and click enter.
3. Select the `Kubernetes/Pods` dashboard.

This is what you should see:

![Grafana][grafana-screenshot]

## Step 5 (optional) - Advanced Distribution usage

### (optional) Create a backup with Velero

1. Create a backup with the `velero` command-line utility:

```bash
velero backup create --from-schedule manifests test -n kube-system
```

2. Check the backup status:

```bash
velero backup get -n kube-system
```

> ### (optional) Enforce a Policy with OPA Gatekeeper

Reviewer: you can copy this section from my open PR [#27](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-getting-started/issues/27)

```bash
kubectl delete namespace logging monitoring ingress-nginx
```

Wait until the namespaces are completeley deleted, or that:

```bash
kubectl get pvc -A
# and 
kubectl get svc -A
```

return no result for pvc and no LoadBalancer for svc.

2. Destroy the additional Terraform resources used by Velero:

```bash
cd /demo/terraform/
terraform destroy
```

3. Destroy GKE cluster:

```bash
# Destroy cluster
cd /demo/infrastructure
furyctl cluster destroy
```

4.  Destroy the firewall-rules we have made for nginx ingress:
  
```bash
cd /demo/infrastructure
make delete-firewall-rule FIREWALL_RULE_NAME=allow-nginx-ingress-admission-webhook
```

5. Destroy network infrastructure (remember to disconnect from the VPN before deleting):

```bash
cd /demo/infrastructure
furyctl bootstrap destroy
```

6. (Optional) Destroy the S3 bucket holding the Terraform state

```bash
gsutil -m rm -r gs://<GCS_BUCKET>/terraform
gsutil rb gs://<GCS_BUCKET>
```

7. Exit from the docker container:

```bash
exit
```

## Conclusions

Congratulations, you made it! 🥳🥳

We hope you enjoyed this tour of Fury!

### Issues/Feedback

> In case your ran into any problems feel free to open an issue here on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you ran into any problems feel free to [open an issue in GitHub](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-getting-started/issues/new).
```
